---
layout: post
title: Health System
subtitle: GSoC Week 5 update
js: [/js/github-buttons.js, /js/required.js]
image: /img/oreonhealth.png
ext-js: https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.12.0/jquery.min.js
css: [/css/required.css, /css/github-buttons.css]
---

## Oreon Health System
Week 5 involved working on the _Oreon Health System_ which encompasses logic (currently just) related to the reduction in health of the Oreon based on the situation. The initial implementation considers `hunger` as a parameter for this reduction i.e.
an Oreon that has been hungry for a while and cannot find a _Diner_ in the village will lose health over time, also notifying the player about its "plight" every once in a while. Every time the `needs_food` node is hit in the Oreon's behavior tree
 and the Oreon  cannot find a _DIner_ in the village the `OreonHealthSystem` is triggered. If there are no tasks available in the village, then the huger check node is hit every time the BT is run, i.e this would lead to a deduction in the Oreon health parameter
every tick, which would mean a hungry Oreon would have a rather short _lifespan_. I thought of two probable solutions for this:
- 1. Reduce the health every tick but by a very small quantity, so it seems that Oreon can fight hunger for a long time.
- 2. Use a variable to keep track of the last check and decide whether to run the HealthSystem logic based on the time elapsed.
I decided to go with the second approach, as the first approach would be rather resource intensive considering that the HealthSystem logic would be run every time the game updates, which in turn leads to fetching the `OreonAttributeComponent`, changing a field
, replicating this change over the network every tick. So, I added a `lastHungerCheck` field to the component and use this decide whether to go ahead with the reduction or not.

#### What happens when Oreon health hits zero?

## Oreon Death System
A rather grim topic :)  

#### Some other minor bug fixes